
The Arborist walked among the plant covered dunes that lined most of the beaches on this planet. Little bright green leaves furled themselves around the base in patches while shoots stood to the sun. 
'Arborist' was not the most accurate translation of the word, but world spirits where so often conflated with their sedentary children that the comparison was not unwarranted. So, for simplicities sake, she went by the Arborist. Or in the native tongue "the tree guy". She didn't blame them, she *did* live in a tree. 
She was hard built and solid as the trees she tended to. All worlds had trees, and they prefer being tended too. When she was younger she imagined each tree of her home world 
Some of the dunes were mottled with imported golden brown sand-chafe, ever present on a thousand other worlds, swayed in the breezes that the ocean endlessly streamed onto the coasts. A gust of salty air ruffled her hair. Small patches of sand shifted beneath her feet. The dunes made the landscape look as if it was as a storm at sea, waves frozen midroll. The landscape contrasted the calm waters of the bay. The plants that burrowed into the dunes never made them pile higher than five feet and never steeper than a staircase. 
The planets twin, the source of the low tide, hung in just over the horizon. It was glowing from the light of the two stars that shown from other horizon, making the planet shine like metal disc. She had heard stories since their arrival told of her people, how they lived in those stars. It was not far from the truth...
The reconstruction of the planet's biosphere was going as planned, introducing genetically modified organisms to fill the rapidly emptying niches that were being carved out by the planet's fluctuating atmospheric composition. Plants were slowly modified to utilize the increase in UV light, the many small aquatic organisms were modified via bacteria to breathe the high concentrations of oxygen that was now being provided by the frequent bloom of colonial algae species. The dominant social species of the planet where provided shelters by several species of sedentary creatures with wide, wing like fronds as their food sources became more plentiful. Restoring life to a world was not a simple task.

soaking up the sun rays just as easily as a gourd would a drizzle in the dry season
- (S/C) All Magic users are gifted a seed, that grows in step with their power. For the average mage it becomes a trusty wand no longer than their forearm. For some it grows into a great staff. These mages can move mountains and part seas. Yours has grown so much that you've decided to live inside it.